README.md, before:

### This README.md and other documentation is specific to a branch / release

---

[![Build](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b908266740664e8c9985be70babe9262)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/verifyica-team/pipeliner/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade) <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/JDK%20compatibility-8+-blue.svg" alt="java 8+"></a> <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="Apache 2.0"></a>

# Verifyica Pipeliner

Verifyica Pipeliner allows you to define and run a local pipeline using a syntax ***similar*** to GitHub actions.

**Pipeliner is not designed to be 100% GitHub action compatible.**

## Why ?

There are many scenarios where you need to perform various processing steps during development, system maintenance, or general workflows.

Example:

- patching source files
- setting up a test environment
- building a custom zip or tar.gz file
- common local CI/CD workflows

#### Maven & Gradle

Maven and Gradle ***can*** and ***are*** useful in development environment for Java developers.

Developers in other languages use non-Java language specific tools.

Maven and Gradle are not the best tools for system administrators.

#### Bash

A common go to is to use a Bash script(s). Pipeliner uses them for testing.

Implementing logging, exit code checking, etc. is commonly implemented incorrectly and inconsistently.

#### Pipeliner

Pipeliner allows a declarative definition of a pipeline(s) using YAML.

Designing a pipeline(s) using Bash command(s), small purpose-built applications, or small purpose-built shell scripts allows for easier development, reuse, testing, etc.

## Requirements

Java 8 or later is required to run Pipeliner.

## Pipeline YAML definition

Basic example:

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: hello-world-pipeline
  jobs:
    - name: hello-world-job
      enabled: true
      steps:
        - name: hello-world-step-1
          enabled: true
          run: echo "Hello World"
        - name: hello-world-step-2
          enabled: true
          run: echo \"Hello World\"
```

Other examples:

- example pipelines [examples](examples)
- test pipelines [tests](tests) 

Advanced examples:

- builds the packages [package.yaml](package.yaml)
- builds the release [release.yaml](release.yaml)

## Pipeliner Output

Pipeliner uses various prefixes to indicate output.

### Info

- Information output is prefixed with `@info`

### Error

- Error output is prefixed with `@error`

### Trace

- Trace output is prefixed with `@trace`

### Pipeline, Job, Step

The pipeline, jobs, and steps output is prefixed with `@<IDENTIFIER>`

- `@pipeline`
- `@job`
- `@step`

**Notes**

- When a pipeline, jobs, and steps complete, an exit code and execution time in milliseconds is included


- The all jobs and all steps generate output, regardless if they are enabled, disabled, or skipped

Starting output ...

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[RUNNING]
...
```

Finished output ...

```shell
...
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[11]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[60]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[61]
```

### Command

- The command executed is prefixed with `$ `
- The command output is prefixed with `> `

### Example Output

```shell
user@machine> ./pipeliner examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo "Hello World"
> Hello World
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[43]
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo \"Hello World\"
> "Hello World"
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[11]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[60]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[61]
```

## Properties

A pipeline, job, or step can define properties using a `with` map.

These properties can be used in `run` statements as well as a `working-directory` value.

### Example

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: Hello World Pipeline
  id: hello-world-pipeline
  enabled: true
  with:
    property.1: pipeline.foo
    property.2: pipeline.bar
  jobs:
    - name: Hello World Job
      id: hello-world-job
      enabled: true
      with:
        property.1: job.foo
        property.2: job.bar
      steps:
        - name: Hello World Step
          id: hello-world-step
          enabled: true
          with:
            property.1: step.foo
            property.2: step.bar
          run: |
            echo global scope -> ${{ property.1 }} ${{ property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo job scoped -> ${{ hello-world-job.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-job.property.2 }}
            echo job scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.property.2 }}
            echo pipeline scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.property.2 }}
```

**NOTES**

- For scoped properties, a unique `id` is required
- An `id` must match the regular expression `^[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_-]*$` 
- Property replacement is recursive (i.e. a property can be defined using another property)

### Command

```shell
./pipeliner examples/properties.yaml
```

### Output

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[properties.yaml]
@pipeline name=[Hello World Pipeline] id=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[Hello World Job] id=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[Hello World Step] id=[hello-world-step] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo global scope -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo job scoped -> job.foo job.bar
$ echo job scoped -> job.foo job.bar
$ echo pipeline scoped -> pipeline.foo pipeline.bar
@step name=[Hello World Step] id=[hello-world-step] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[56]
@job name=[Hello World Job] id=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[77]
@pipeline name=[Hello World Pipeline] id=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[78]
```

## Capture Properties

The output of a step can be captured as a property to be used in subsequent jobs and steps.

Examples...

- [test-capture-append.yaml](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/blob/main/tests/test-capture-append.yaml)
- [test-capture-overwrite.yaml](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/blob/main/tests/test-capture-overwrite.yaml)

## Environment Variables

A pipeline, job, or step can define environment variables using an `env` map.

**Notes**

- Environment variables are **not** scoped
- Environment variables can't be captured

## Other Examples

The example and test pipelines provide other examples...

- example pipelines [examples](examples)
- test pipelines [tests](tests)

# Pipeliner IPC

For more complex scenarios, where you need to pass properties and capture multiple properties, you can use Pipeliner IPC.

Pipeliner creates two temporary properties files. The filenames are passed to the application as environment variables.

- `PIPELINER_IPC_IN`
- `PIPELINER_IPC_OUT` 

**Notes**

- The properties file is a Java properties file format

### PIPELINER_IPC_IN

Environment variable that contains the full path name of the properties file passed from Pipeliner to your application.

Read the properties file to get properties.

### PIPELINER_IPC_OUT

Environment variable that contains the full path name of the properties file your application should write to capture properties..

Write to this properties file to capture properties.

### Example

- example IPC pipeline [examples/ipc.yaml](examples/ipc.yaml)
  - uses a class `Extension` packaged in the jar as an example

## Project Installation

Zip:

```bash
cd <PROJECT DIRECTORY>
unzip verifyica-pipeliner.zip
./pipeliner --info
./pipeliner .pipeliner/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

Tarball:

```bash
cd <PROJECT DIRECTORY>
tar -xf verifyica-pipeliner.tar.gz
./pipeliner --info
./pipeliner .pipeliner/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

## Executing

```shell
./pipeliner <YOUR PIPELINE YAML>
```

# Pipeliner Extensions (0.15.0-snapshot)

Pipeliner allows you to create extensions to add additional functionality.

An extension is a `tar.gz` or `zip` file containing a shell script named `execute.sh`.

## Example

Example pipeline that create an extension and uses it.

- Example pipeline using `--uses` [examples/uses.yaml](examples/uses.yaml)

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: Uses Pipeline
  id: uses-pipeline
  enabled: true
  jobs:
    - name: Uses Job
      id: uses-job
      steps:
        - name: Create Example Package
          id: create-example-package
          run: |
            mkdir -p TMP
            rm -Rf TMP/*
            echo "echo executing example package" > TMP/execute.sh
            cd TMP && zip -qr tmp.zip *
        - name: Execute Example Package
          id: execute-example-package
          run: --uses file://TMP/tmp.zip
        - name: Execute Remote Package
          id: execute-remote-package
          enabled: false
          # Example using package from HTTP server
          run: --uses http://random.server.com/tmp.zip
```

**Notes**

- Remote packages are referenced using a URL (e.g. `http://some.server.com/<PATH_TO_EXTENSION_PACKAGE>`)
  - The URL must be accessible by the Pipeliner process
  - If the URL is HTTPS, the server certificate must be trusted by the JVM
  - Use caution when using remote packages

- Local packages are referenced using a file URL (e.g. `file://<PATH_TO_EXTENSION_PACKAGE>`)

# Pipeliner Options

Pipeliner options...

- `--info`
  - shows information
- `--version`
  - emits the version
- `--timestamps`
  - include timestamps in output
- `--trace`
  - include trace messages in output
- `--minimal`
  - only emits commands, command output, and errors in output
- `-P <property name>=<value>` or `--with <property name>=<value>`
  - sets a property
  - repeatable
- `--with-file <filename>`
  - loads and set properties from a file
  - repeatable 
- `-E <environment variable>=<value>` or `--env <environment variable>=<value>`
  - sets an environment variable
  - repeatable
- `--help`
  - shows help

Optionally, some options can be set using environment variables:

- `PIPELINER_TIMESTAMPS=true`
- `PIPELINER_TRACE=true`
- `PIPELINER_MINIMAL=true`

**Notes**

- Command line options override environment variables

# Building

Java 8 or later is required to build. The code target is Java 8.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner
cd pipeliner
./mvnw clean verify
```

**Notes**

- Packaging requires `zip` and `tar` to be installed

## Packages

The `OUTPUT` directory will contain the release packages and associated SHA1 checksum files.

- `verifiyica-piperliner.zip`
- `verifiyica-piperliner.zip.sha1`
- `verifyica-piperliner.tar.gz`
- `verifyica-piperliner.tar.gz.sha1`

# Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

# License

Apache License 2.0, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

# DCO

See [DCO](DCO.md) for details.

# Support

![YourKit logo](https://www.yourkit.com/images/yklogo.png)

[YourKit](https://www.yourkit.com/) supports open source projects with innovative and intelligent tools for monitoring and profiling Java and .NET applications.

YourKit is the creator of <a href="https://www.yourkit.com/java/profiler/">YourKit Java Profiler</a>,
<a href="https://www.yourkit.com/dotnet-profiler/">YourKit .NET Profiler</a>,
and <a href="https://www.yourkit.com/youmonitor/">YourKit YouMonitor</a>.

---

Copyright (C) 2024-present Pipeliner project authors and contributors

Commit message:

Added --uses support for SHA-256 checksum validation
Signed-off-by: antublue <antublue@antublue.org>

README.md, after:

### This README.md and other documentation is specific to a branch / release

---

[![Build](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b908266740664e8c9985be70babe9262)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/verifyica-team/pipeliner/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade) <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/JDK%20compatibility-8+-blue.svg" alt="java 8+"></a> <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="Apache 2.0"></a>

# Verifyica Pipeliner

Verifyica Pipeliner allows you to define and run a local pipeline using a syntax ***similar*** to GitHub actions.

**Pipeliner is not designed to be 100% GitHub action compatible.**

## Why ?

There are many scenarios where you need to perform various processing steps during development, system maintenance, or general workflows.

Example:

- patching source files
- setting up a test environment
- building a custom zip or tar.gz file
- common local CI/CD workflows

#### Maven & Gradle

Maven and Gradle ***can*** and ***are*** useful in development environment for Java developers.

Developers in other languages use non-Java language specific tools.

Maven and Gradle are not the best tools for system administrators.

#### Bash

A common go to is to use a Bash script(s). Pipeliner uses them for testing.

Implementing logging, exit code checking, etc. is commonly implemented incorrectly and inconsistently.

#### Pipeliner

Pipeliner allows a declarative definition of a pipeline(s) using YAML.

Designing a pipeline(s) using Bash command(s), small purpose-built applications, or small purpose-built shell scripts allows for easier development, reuse, testing, etc.

## Requirements

Java 8 or later is required to run Pipeliner.

## Pipeline YAML definition

Basic example:

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: hello-world-pipeline
  jobs:
    - name: hello-world-job
      enabled: true
      steps:
        - name: hello-world-step-1
          enabled: true
          run: echo "Hello World"
        - name: hello-world-step-2
          enabled: true
          run: echo \"Hello World\"
```

Other examples:

- example pipelines [examples](examples)
- test pipelines [tests](tests) 

Advanced examples:

- builds the packages [package.yaml](package.yaml)
- builds the release [release.yaml](release.yaml)

## Pipeliner Output

Pipeliner uses various prefixes to indicate output.

### Info

- Information output is prefixed with `@info`

### Error

- Error output is prefixed with `@error`

### Trace

- Trace output is prefixed with `@trace`

### Pipeline, Job, Step

The pipeline, jobs, and steps output is prefixed with `@<IDENTIFIER>`

- `@pipeline`
- `@job`
- `@step`

**Notes**

- When a pipeline, jobs, and steps complete, an exit code and execution time in milliseconds is included


- The all jobs and all steps generate output, regardless if they are enabled, disabled, or skipped

Starting output ...

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[RUNNING]
...
```

Finished output ...

```shell
...
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[11]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[60]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[61]
```

### Command

- The command executed is prefixed with `$ `
- The command output is prefixed with `> `

### Example Output

```shell
user@machine> ./pipeliner examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[examples/hello-world-pipeline.yaml]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo "Hello World"
> Hello World
@step name=[hello-world-step-1] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[43]
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo \"Hello World\"
> "Hello World"
@step name=[hello-world-step-2] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[11]
@job name=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[60]
@pipeline name=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[61]
```

## Properties

A pipeline, job, or step can define properties using a `with` map.

These properties can be used in `run` statements as well as a `working-directory` value.

### Example

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: Hello World Pipeline
  id: hello-world-pipeline
  enabled: true
  with:
    property.1: pipeline.foo
    property.2: pipeline.bar
  jobs:
    - name: Hello World Job
      id: hello-world-job
      enabled: true
      with:
        property.1: job.foo
        property.2: job.bar
      steps:
        - name: Hello World Step
          id: hello-world-step
          enabled: true
          with:
            property.1: step.foo
            property.2: step.bar
          run: |
            echo global scope -> ${{ property.1 }} ${{ property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo step scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.hello-world-step.property.2 }}
            echo job scoped -> ${{ hello-world-job.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-job.property.2 }}
            echo job scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.hello-world-job.property.2 }}
            echo pipeline scoped -> ${{ hello-world-pipeline.property.1 }} ${{ hello-world-pipeline.property.2 }}
```

**NOTES**

- For scoped properties, a unique `id` is required
- An `id` must match the regular expression `^[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_-]*$` 
- Property replacement is recursive (i.e. a property can be defined using another property)

### Command

```shell
./pipeliner examples/properties.yaml
```

### Output

```shell
@info Verifyica Pipeliner 0.11.0 (https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner)
@info filename=[properties.yaml]
@pipeline name=[Hello World Pipeline] id=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[RUNNING]
@job name=[Hello World Job] id=[hello-world-job] status=[RUNNING]
@step name=[Hello World Step] id=[hello-world-step] status=[RUNNING]
$ echo global scope -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo step scoped -> step.foo step.bar
$ echo job scoped -> job.foo job.bar
$ echo job scoped -> job.foo job.bar
$ echo pipeline scoped -> pipeline.foo pipeline.bar
@step name=[Hello World Step] id=[hello-world-step] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[56]
@job name=[Hello World Job] id=[hello-world-job] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[77]
@pipeline name=[Hello World Pipeline] id=[hello-world-pipeline] status=[SUCCESS] exit-code=[0] ms=[78]
```

## Capture Properties

The output of a step can be captured as a property to be used in subsequent jobs and steps.

Examples...

- [test-capture-append.yaml](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/blob/main/tests/test-capture-append.yaml)
- [test-capture-overwrite.yaml](https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner/blob/main/tests/test-capture-overwrite.yaml)

## Environment Variables

A pipeline, job, or step can define environment variables using an `env` map.

**Notes**

- Environment variables are **not** scoped
- Environment variables can't be captured

## Other Examples

The example and test pipelines provide other examples...

- example pipelines [examples](examples)
- test pipelines [tests](tests)

# Pipeliner IPC

For more complex scenarios, where you need to pass properties and capture multiple properties, you can use Pipeliner IPC.

Pipeliner creates two temporary properties files. The filenames are passed to the application as environment variables.

- `PIPELINER_IPC_IN`
- `PIPELINER_IPC_OUT` 

**Notes**

- The properties file is a Java properties file format

### PIPELINER_IPC_IN

Environment variable that contains the full path name of the properties file passed from Pipeliner to your application.

Read the properties file to get properties.

### PIPELINER_IPC_OUT

Environment variable that contains the full path name of the properties file your application should write to capture properties..

Write to this properties file to capture properties.

### Example

- example IPC pipeline [examples/ipc.yaml](examples/ipc.yaml)
  - uses a class `Extension` packaged in the jar as an example

## Project Installation

Zip:

```bash
cd <PROJECT DIRECTORY>
unzip verifyica-pipeliner.zip
./pipeliner --info
./pipeliner .pipeliner/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

Tarball:

```bash
cd <PROJECT DIRECTORY>
tar -xf verifyica-pipeliner.tar.gz
./pipeliner --info
./pipeliner .pipeliner/hello-world-pipeline.yaml
```

## Executing

```shell
./pipeliner <YOUR PIPELINE YAML>
```

# Pipeliner Extensions (0.15.0-snapshot)

Pipeliner allows you to create extensions to add additional functionality.

An extension is a `tar.gz` or `zip` file containing a shell script named `execute.sh`.

## Example

Example pipeline that create an extension and uses it.

- Example pipeline using `--uses` [examples/uses.yaml](examples/uses.yaml)

```yaml
pipeline:
  name: Uses Pipeline
  id: uses-pipeline
  enabled: true
  jobs:
    - name: Uses Job
      id: uses-job
      steps:
        - name: Create Example Package
          id: create-example-package
          run: |
            mkdir -p TMP
            rm -Rf TMP/*
            echo "echo executing example package" > TMP/execute.sh
            cd TMP && zip -qr tmp.zip *
        - name: Execute Example Package
          id: execute-example-package
          run: --uses file://TMP/tmp.zip
        - name: Execute Remote Package
          id: execute-remote-package
          enabled: false
          # Example using package from HTTP server
          run: --uses http://random.server.com/tmp.zip
```

**Notes**

- Remote packages are referenced using a URL (e.g. `http://<YOUR_SERVER>/<EXTENSION_PACKAGE>`)
  - The URL must be accessible by the Pipeliner process
  - If the URL is HTTPS, the server certificate must be trusted by the JVM

- Local packages are referenced using a file URL (e.g. `file://<EXTENSION_PACKAGE>`)


- Use a SHA-256 checksum file to verify the integrity of the extension package
  - `run: --uses file://<EXTENSION_PACKAGE> <EXTENSION_PACKAGE_SHA-256_CHECKSUM>`

# Pipeliner Options

Pipeliner options...

- `--info`
  - shows information
- `--version`
  - emits the version
- `--timestamps`
  - include timestamps in output
- `--trace`
  - include trace messages in output
- `--minimal`
  - only emits commands, command output, and errors in output
- `-P <property name>=<value>` or `--with <property name>=<value>`
  - sets a property
  - repeatable
- `--with-file <filename>`
  - loads and set properties from a file
  - repeatable 
- `-E <environment variable>=<value>` or `--env <environment variable>=<value>`
  - sets an environment variable
  - repeatable
- `--help`
  - shows help

Optionally, some options can be set using environment variables:

- `PIPELINER_TIMESTAMPS=true`
- `PIPELINER_TRACE=true`
- `PIPELINER_MINIMAL=true`

**Notes**

- Command line options override environment variables

# Building

Java 8 or later is required to build. The code target is Java 8.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/verifyica-team/pipeliner
cd pipeliner
./mvnw clean verify
```

**Notes**

- Packaging requires `zip` and `tar` to be installed

## Packages

The `OUTPUT` directory will contain the release packages and associated SHA1 checksum files.

- `verifiyica-piperliner.zip`
- `verifiyica-piperliner.zip.sha1`
- `verifyica-piperliner.tar.gz`
- `verifyica-piperliner.tar.gz.sha1`

# Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

# License

Apache License 2.0, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

# DCO

See [DCO](DCO.md) for details.

# Support

![YourKit logo](https://www.yourkit.com/images/yklogo.png)

[YourKit](https://www.yourkit.com/) supports open source projects with innovative and intelligent tools for monitoring and profiling Java and .NET applications.

YourKit is the creator of <a href="https://www.yourkit.com/java/profiler/">YourKit Java Profiler</a>,
<a href="https://www.yourkit.com/dotnet-profiler/">YourKit .NET Profiler</a>,
and <a href="https://www.yourkit.com/youmonitor/">YourKit YouMonitor</a>.

---

Copyright (C) 2024-present Pipeliner project authors and contributors
